all right we're here with James D
Eugenio he's the author of the JFK
assassination the evidence today that
and he is also the editor and publisher
of Kennedy's and King calm he's just
published two new reviews of two
television specials that came out the
first was on CNN called American
dynasties the Kennedys and the article
is called CN n desert this services
history and you can find that on
Kennedys and King and he also wrote a
review of Tom Hanks's 1968 the year that
change in America so there's also review
there I definitely suggest people read
these and if you have family members who
watch these you can send them to to them
for a second a second thought on these
shows but thank you Jim for talking to
us today
sure we'll start with the American
dynasty's one that was on CNN all right
these two documentaries the first one
was a six-part er called American
dynasties the Kennedys that was on CNN
the second one was 1968 the year that
changed America that was also on CNN
which see this is kind of disturbing in
and of itself because see CNN is
supposed to be the moderate channel of
the three major cable channels Fox is on
the right
MSNBC is on the left and CNN is supposed
to be in the middle which is really
disturbing if these two shows are
examples of moderation today because in
my view there's no way in the world that
either these programs is done from a
center or moderate point of view I think
they as we're going to see you know
they're both especially American
dynasties is a very kind of agenda
driven
completely controlled presentation okay
and I and in my article on this which is
a Kennedy's in King alright
you will see that from the very
beginning from the very choice of
talking heads this show is completely
tilted alright
people like randy taraborrelli who is
nothing but an entertainment journalist
Larry Tye who wrote a book about Bobby
Kennedy that was endorsed by what I call
the post-war champion of genocides Henry
Kissinger mm-hmm
all right you know Van Jones I mean what
does Van Jones ever written about the
Kennedys you know I mean John Van Jones
wrote a good book called the green
dollar economy what that has to do with
the Kennedys is something I don't
understand all right
ok but I began to see what this show was
really about about midway through the
second part because when I was writing
for the paper magazine probe I had done
what has become kind of a famous article
alright which was called the posthumous
assassination of John F Kennedy all
right
that article got one of the most lively
responses ever from when I was doing
probe I think I published at 97 or 98 in
that series it was a two-part series I
essentially went through what had caused
the publication of Seymour Hersh's piece
of junk book the dark side of Camelot
alright and I traced where this all
started and there was a series of what I
call negative biographies
that were published after the church
committee have been completed which I
think was 75 or 76 and I went through
all these books and they were by authors
like John Davis late John Davis delay
Clay Blair David Horowitz and Peter
Collier Thomas reuse etc and they all
came from the same imprint okay which
was pretty easy to deduce after you read
one or two of them all right the whole
idea was to counteract the first wave of
books about the Kennedys if you recall
after JFK was assassinated there was a
series of I'd say about four books that
came out from people who knew him pretty
well and these books did not just deal
with JFK they dealt with other members
of his family like Bobby Kennedy and Ted
Kennedy and so if you recall these were
like a thousand days by Arthur
Schlesinger which is a very good book
all right there was also Ted Sorensen
book Kennedy and there was also Johnny
we hardly knew ye by O'Donnell and
powers and then there was also with
Kennedy by Pierre Salinger
alright and these those are pretty good
books by the way though those books
stand up very well today you know
especially when you compare them to
later books that were published in the
90s and in a new millennium works by
authors like Phillip mewling Beck and
Robert rakove all right that does very
good books these were meant to
counteract them and to essentially be
smear jobs all right
that I began to see the paradigm that
was set by them and these were that we
have to make Joe Kennedy the father of
all the Kennedy children into some kind
of a rough caricature who had tremendous
influence over his children and that
kids were essentially empty vessels of
this bad guy okay which is completely
wrong all right
and as this is one of the things I
addressed in that essay
all right for example Joe Kennedy was an
isolationist that's what got him into
trouble when he became ambassador to
England right all right okay well from
from the first couple of years that JFK
was in the House of Representatives it
was very clear he was an
internationalist okay he he was and this
went on and on and on until it became a
senator and president that he thought
that the United States had a definite
role to play in the foreign policy field
okay it differed from what the Dulles
brothers and Dean Acheson thought but
there's no doubt that JFK was an
internationalist okay
and also congressman Kennedy voted
sustained Harry Truman's veto the
taft-hartley bill all right
taft-hartley bill was very strongly
anti-union
all right but JFK didn't go along with
that and of course that did not sit very
well with his father
but he did it anyway all right it also
just the Kennedys American dynasty also
says that Joe Kennedy actually wanted to
be President that well in Richard
Whelan's book it's 472 pages all right
and it's not very you know Whalen was
not a completely negative biographer but
he was not a very sympathetic biographer
either all right he labeled these is
nothing but quote the echo of the press
talking to itself in
were they were amplified rumors hmm Joe
Kennedy knew that he was not going to be
President
all right but then what these books try
and do is say that somehow he then
anointed his son John Kennedy and he had
and he said you must go in the political
in the political office and you must go
ahead and go to the highest position you
know what this is all counteracted you
know by if you read for example the
Adana land powers book okay you know you
will see that JFK actually at the
beginning of his after he got out of the
service he was actually a reporter he
had been a published author while
England slap and that's the first thing
he seriously thought of doing he thought
of carving out a career in journalism
and authoring books yes since his first
book had been a pretty big success you
know and so he then changed his mind
after he had done a couple of reporting
jobs in San Francisco at the UN and at
the meeting at Potsdam in Europe and he
felt that he could do a better job
influencing events if he was in the
arena rather than just reporting on it
the guy was a political junkie from the
beginning as John Shaw says in his book
JFK in the Senate you know young John
Kennedy is subscribed to the New York
Times at age 14 all right okay so you
know he had been very interested in this
stuff for a long period of time all
right and so he actually the other thing
they actually influenced him on this was
his experience in world war two before
we uh let me I mean was the he had an
older brother right and wasn't that sort
of the savior Giovanni right who died
who died
in Europe okay in the war on a bombing
mission okay
and so but a lot of people believe is
that Joe was actually going to be the
guy who was going to lead the Kennedy
dynasty into the political world all
right and then the myth has it that
after Joe perished his father called him
in and said now that your brother is
dead you know it has to be you none of
that is true hmm none of that is true
alright see JFK
if you read about him because he was
such a sickly child okay he did a lot of
reading alright he was very curious he
was very bright alright and that profile
of course would fit into being a writer
and an author okay and so that's that's
for us what he wanted to do but after
the war he decided you know that we
should never let something like that
happen again
alright and so that was the other thing
that influenced him to go into politics
alright now this American dynasties this
lakal to put it mildly this lackluster
exercise then tries and goes ahead and
it's smears JFK's service on pt-109 you
know they cut from Richard Mahoney to
David Nassau and this is obviously done
very planned you know in in advance and
they said somehow JFK didn't make a big
deal about his medals and that's Nassau
after he says that Kennedy should have
been court-martialed for what he did
with pt-109 since he was out of his area
this is what a bunch of baloney this is
look the whole pt-109 episode
been misconstrued by so many writers
it's kind of ridiculous see that mission
in August of 1943 pt-109
the torpedo boat was part of at least a
nine boat platoon that was meant to try
and draw these Japanese destroyers out
of port and then picked them off as they
came what went on here was that the
mission was so badly designed all right
number one and that the platoon leader
provoked a response and then left
JFK's platoon leader then left with the
only radar set that they had so
Kennedy's ship was caught in the dead of
night completely pitch black with no
radar not knowing who was in the
vicinity and then when they started
being attacked they thought it was
assure batteries
that's how blind they were but Kennedy
didn't want to turn on the lights
because of course that would tell the
enemy where he was right so because the
thing was bungled so badly depite the
remaining PT boats became objects of
attack instead of being attackers all
right and so Kennedy's ship was rammed
deliberately rammed by a Japanese
destroyer cutting the boat in half and
Kennedy now had to try and do his best
to save what was left of his command to
two guys were killed upon impact
Kennedy managed to position some of them
on the floating hunk of the debris of
the ship some of these guys couldn't
swim all right and so he then
got them grouped together on some of the
timber that was floating in the ocean
and he led them away swimming little
lifeboats trapped between his teeth
towing a badly burned sailor behind him
if you can believe this he did that for
four hours all right until they reached
plum-pudding island but plum-pudding
island didn't have water or fruit on it
so then Kennedy had to scout to another
nearby island he swam again two and a
half miles to O lisanna Island
there he found some vegetation and water
and he transferred the crew to that
Island he then scratched out a message
on a coconut shell and he gave it to
some Native allied Scouts and canoes and
the name managed to get it to their
British Scout master and six days later
with the crew very much in bad health a
large canoe arrived with food that
rescued them so what what this show says
is completely bogus you know the people
who should have been court-martialed
other people who planned the operation
and then left with leaving him with no
radar all right and unlike what the
program says Kennedy was proud of his
military service as he should have been
he kept his three medals and he kept the
coconut shell on his presidential desk
this is nothing but a hatchet job their
treatment of that whole episode is a
deliberate hatchet job the worst
tradition of TV journalism all right so
then we go to the House of
Representatives Kennedy's service there
which the program pretty much has floats
over all right Kennedy was very
progressive as a congressman
his issues were national health care the
women wrists back in 1946 all right
advocacy of workers rights to organize
housing for returning veterans and
securing the future the United Nations
as a hope for peace in the world all
right
one of the things he concentrated on was
housing for returning veterans he
strongly criticized a Republican stance
on this issue or he actually once said
that their allies the American Legion
had not had a constructive thought about
American Progress since 1918 now that
would be a good quote to put on TV
wouldn't it not on there mm-hmm all
right he actually debated Richard Nixon
in McKeesport Pennsylvania in 1947 Nixon
of course was for taft-hartley the
union-busting bill all right
JFK was against it all right that's not
in the program either the show then runs
to the Senate Evan Thomas who is used to
work for Newsweek has now become pretty
much a hack
all right in tones at this time that
John Kennedy considered RFK something
like a pain in the butt at this time
before he's about to become his campaign
manager that's because the show leaves
out the trip that they made to the Far
East and Indochina in 1951 all right
this was done in order for JFK to get a
higher profile on foreign policy in
order to run against Henry Cabot Lodge
in Massachusetts for the Senate seat on
that trip Kennedy met Edmund galleon a
guy he won known very briefly in
Washington
Edmund galleon was a counsel in the
State Department who was working at that
time in Indochina because he spoke
fluent French he was actually stationed
in Saigon they also met with Nehru of
India and both men gave them the same
message that there is no way France is
gonna retake Vietnam okay it's a
hopeless cause that had a tremendous
impact on JFK's thinking at the time
all right in fact the changes hold view
of foreign policy right now Bobby
Kennedy of course runs the 1952 Senate
campaign and it is not at the request of
Joe Kennedy as the show says it was done
beat through Kenny O'Donnell O'Donnell
pretty much told Bobby Kennedy that
unless he took over there was a real
possibility JFK was going to lose so
Bobby became the campaign man and he did
a very good job worked 18-hour days
showed excellent organizational ability
all right to set the next part of this
show is so bizarre this is what I mean
about being a hatchet job it's so
bizarre is so misconceived that it gives
away the game see what they do here
they don't deal very much at all with
JFK's career in the Senate all right
which was about eight years what they
concentrate on is Bobby Kennedy as
counsel rather not she counsel his
service of the McCarthy Committee and
then what became the rackets committee
under McClellan hmm right and he then
became chief counsel as that committee
passed from McCarthy to McClellan and it
tries to say I really couldn't believe
they said this that somehow senator
Kennedy had a kind of nondescript career
in the Senate and that the only
highlight of it was when he served on
the McClellan committee that is when
Bobby Kennedy went after Jimmy Hoffa and
the mob I mean I really couldn't believe
this this was really ridiculous but this
is how a gender driven this show is John
Shaw wrote what I think is the only book
about JFK's career in the Senate okay
and I think it's actually called dad JFK
in the Senate
in his book he goes through many of the
distinguished things that's sent candy
did they're on both the domestic side
the regional side for the economy of
Massachusetts okay the st. Lawrence
Seaway things like that its advocacy for
workers compensation unemployment
insurance and those kind of very good
domestic programs but he concludes that
the achievement of what JFK did in the
Senate is that the formulation of
Canada's challenge to the reigning
foreign policy orthodoxy that governed
both parties that was his signal
achievement this show doesn't want to
say that alright
the Republican cold war militancy
towards Russia and it's that influence
in the third world was led by Eisenhower
Vice President Nixon and the Dulles
brothers John's phosphorus State and
Allen at the CIA in the Senate Lyndon
Johnson and the Southern Democrats
offered no real alternative to this they
were at best appeal shadow of that
policy right and I Shaw notes with an
old joke the Senate was the only place
in the country where the south did not
lose a civil war that's how much in
control those southern senators were
Kennedy continued his crusade from his
meeting with Eddin going on trying to
create an alternative to this militant
policy by trying to point out that the
real problem in the third world wasn't
communism it was colonialism and the
counter force that had created which was
a simmering sometimes boiling over
nationalism Kennedy thought that the
United States should Foster and mold
that nationalism
even if it meant conflicting with our
European allies what makes the programs
avoid until this key issue so bizarre is
that one of the talking hands is Richard
Mahoney Mahoney is the author of one of
the best books on this subject
JFK our deal in Africa and I don't for
five seconds believe that the producers
of this show weren't aware of that book
they clearly wanted to ignore it and not
let Mahoney talk about all the
descriptions of Kennedy's opposition to
Eisenhower and Nixon in that regard
right so for instance there's no mention
of Kennedy's opposition to operation
vulture operation vulture was the scheme
by John Foster Dulles to use atomic
weapons to bail out the siege of the
unbend Phu in 1954 so Kennedy was again
stabbed he spoke up against it on the
floor of the Senate there's nothing
about Adlai Stevenson telegram to stifle
Kennedy's radical foreign policy
statements during the 1956 presidential
race I couldn't believe this there's not
even one mention of Kennedy's milestone
speech in the summer of 1957 against the
Dulles Eisenhower attempt to help France
salvage another remnant I was overseas
Empire this time in Algeria Kennedy
showed a lot of courage in making that
speech because he was criticizing a
longtime American ally namely France all
right that speech in addition to being
opposed by Eisenhower Nixon and the
Dulles brothers it was criticized by
literally scores of media outlets and
also members of his own party like
Stephenson and Atchison all right
Kennedy was really hammered on that
speech
he really thought he had made a mistake
but his father told him don't worry
don't worry two years from now you're
gonna look like a prophet because it's
gonna get worse before it gets better
which is exactly what happened hmm
all right as the French dilemma in
Algeria got worse and worse people began
to think back to Kennedy's speech and
said hey maybe this guy knew what the
heck he was talking about and so Kennedy
because of that speech became the
unofficial emissary to visiting
dignitaries from Africa he was the only
guy in the Senate what any interested
any interest in that continent at all
and he was the only guy in this Santa
who that early spoke against the whole
Algerian Civil War that Nixon and
Eisenhower allied against and he's the
one who made the comparison when he said
didn't we learn three years ago when the
French fell at the unban Phu that this
is the wrong policy to be supporting
them on if we were really their friends
we'd be guiding them the negotiating
table so they can make a graceful exit
rather than trying to hang on to his
last outpost of empire there is not one
single sentence in this entire show
about this issue now David I ask you do
you really think they missed it no I
mean you make a good point that they
have in several spots in here that they
had the people you know talking who
wrote on some of these specific issues
but they just sort of leave out you know
they sort of pick and choose even though
they have some of these people they
don't have them talk about some of these
major things that they that they looked
at so it's it's interesting to see what
they pick and choose from even though
they obviously were aware of these
things you know I'm sure Richard Mahoney
when he was I don't know how they set
these up but I'm sure he had his chance
to say I'd like to talk about this and
this and this and this was important and
that was important and they probably
conducted god knows how many hours of
interviews with them and then they just
picked you know this little bit and that
little bit
so you know when we're done with this
section I'd like to get a little more
into like you know why you think they do
this and that but but let's keep going I
didn't want to ask I think you're about
to get to the to the presidential
election 1960 but just so we can get a
timeline you know starting from the end
of World War two until 1960 just what
were the years of you know his his stint
as house representatives and then
extinct in the sand he was in the house
from 46 to 52 he was in the Senate from
52 to 1960 and this is when now the show
leads into the race for the presidency
between Nixon and Kennedy all right it's
it's pretty standard stuff it's very
superficial but Tim Neftali gets in
there and says somehow that the choice
of Lyndon Johnson his VP was Joe
Kennedy's all right again this is
another attempt to somehow show the
influence of Joe Kennedy and the lives
of the Kennedy children the big problem
with this is simply not true the two
best books had deal with this subject
are a thousand days by Arthur
Schlesinger and Kennedy by Ted Sorensen
the two guys who were so strongly
pushing Johnson on Kennedy were Phil
Gramm to publisher the Washington Post
and syndicated columnist Joseph Alsop
you know really Graham even more than
Alsop that's how this happened all right
the what now at this point of course
this is a very good opportunity for the
program to show how this was one of the
milestones that created a very strong
antagonism between LBJ and Bobby Kennedy
you know it doesn't it doesn't do that
there's no there's a whole book about
this by Jeff Shaw so-called mutual
contempt and it spends a lot of time on
this particularly the dispute between
JFK and RFK okay on Lyndon Johnson all
right and I don't think the show makes
enough of that because in historical
terms which is a supposed show supposed
to be about
this is a very important incident all
right which is and it doesn't make
enough of that
Larry chai who's who did a very bad
biography of RK now says that Bobby
Kennedy was appointed Attorney General
and he was a Lisa prepared Attorney
General in history really Herbert
Brownell Eisenhower's Attorney General
was get this a state assemblyman for
four years he was then chairman of the
Republican National Committee for two
years the rest of his life his career he
was a corporate lawyer how does that
prepare you for become Attorney General
Homer Cummings who served under FDR was
a mayor of Stamford Connecticut which at
that time had a population of 50,000 he
was an estate attorney in Fairfield
Connecticut population 20,000 all right
Bobby Kennedy is served in Washington as
a criminal investigator in the Justice
Department and then a congressional
counsel for ten years prior to becoming
Attorney General he has faced often
pursued some of the most deadly killers
and organized crime members in America
including Sam Giancana his pursuit of a
mob in the Senate was unprecedented in
American crime annals his attempt to
clean up corrupt labor unions was also
unique you know you could very much
argue I believe that it was bobby
kennedy who revolutionized the position
of chief counsel and the use of
investigative techniques on Capitol Hill
see these things that before Bobby
Kennedy they were essentially debating
societies you know it was Bobby Kennedy
who was one of the real pioneers in
doing real investigations on Capitol
Hill now I'm not gonna say he was the
first and I'm not gonna say he was the
only one okay but he was one of the
pioneers in that field who and who then
made it kind of standard to have you
know accountants detectives
investigators on your staff all right I
mean what really could you ask more than
Attorney General I don't think very much
more
but this is a part of the whole idea to
somehow say that Bobby Kennedy's and
JFK's first year in the White House was
not very successful and so of course we
only concentrate on the Bay of Pigs and
perhaps the construction of the Berlin
Wall you know then you can look at it
that way see but because they ignored
what JFK was doing in the Senate those
eight years formulating this alternative
foreign policy they ignore the things
that JFK was trying to do once he went
into the White House so therefore they
don't talk about things like the Congo
how Kennedy was trying to keep that
state alive after Lumumba assassination
they don't talk about his friendship
with Sukarno and Indonesia they ignore
how much Kennedy admired that
best-selling book The Ugly American
alright which summarize his attitude
towards the American State Department in
the third world he actually bought a
hundred copies of that book and he gave
it to all the other senators he then
helped get the film made alright so what
he was doing here in addition to you
Congo and Indonesia
he was also changing American foreign
policy in the Middle East he was doing
an outreach to Gamal Abdul Nasser of
Egypt okay because John Foster Dulles
had burned that relationship because
Nasser recognized China and refused to
join the Baghdad pact alright and then
because of that Foster Dulles withdrew
the funding for the Aswan Dam and that
gave Moscow an opportunity to fill that
breach which they did Kennedy thought
that was very ill-advised for three
reasons
generally speaking Heath
thought we could compete with the
Russians in the third world by peaceful
means that is befriending and aiding
non-aligned neutral leaders second
Nasser was an articulate charismatic
leader who had a very wide influence in
the Middle East I mean he was really the
only guy like that if you ask me
third he was a secularist a socialist
and a progressive who directly opposed
the Islamic fundamentalists which was a
force in that area that Kennedy feared
as far back as his speech in 1957 in
fact Nasser had members of the Muslim
Brotherhood prosecuted imprisoned and
executed I'm in my article here I linked
to a video on youtube about Nasser
addressing that issue his opposition to
the Muslim Brotherhood that was really
the underground organization that was
trying to spread Islamic fundamentalism
throughout the Middle East and that
group was financed by the British right
okay because the British felt that would
be easier to deal with monarchies we're
just monarchies in their representation
of BP the giant petroleum company then
it would be somebody like Nasser or
Mosaddegh who would drive for better
deals for the Arab people all right sir
and let's look at where we are today
with that right exactly that's exactly
what I'm talking about
wouldn't that have been a very
contemporary issue for this show to deal
with about American policy in the third
world and the all the powerful overtones
that conflict had with the growth of
al-qaeda you know but of course by now
it's pretty obvious that these people
didn't want this new information on
their you know no matter how interesting
no matter how and
all right so what they do is they talk
about the Bay of Pigs the failure at the
Bay of Pigs but they don't review what
happened afterwards
that is the appointment of the tailor
Commission and JFK's appointment of
Bobby Kennedy to be on that Commission
and how Bobby Kennedy went after Allen
Dulles when he was on the witness stand
asked him some very difficult questions
with Dulles really couldn't answer then
he consulted with Bob Lovett the former
Secretary of Defense through his father
Joe Kennedy and found out that both love
it
and David Bruce instated tried to get
Dulles fired alright when JFK was
alerted to all this and talked to love
it he decided to decapitate the top
level two CIA Allen Dulles dick Bissell
and Charles Cobell there isn't one word
in his documentary about that not one
word
alright ok so then we go to the space
missions and this is depicted as a win
at all cost
ambition instilled in his children by
Joe Kennedy this is just silly and again
what this show does it ignores the
inputs of one of their own commentators
Tim Naftali in his book one hell of a
gamble he wrote that in May of 1961 JFK
really didn't want to promote the space
race the cold war in space race all
right he thought it would be a good idea
to propose a co-sponsored mission
Kennedy originally thought the whole
space mission was way too expensive and
only when the Russians refused a joint
proposal because they were ahead at that
time by Dean Rusk did Kennedy then
commit to Apollo and even then he tried
for a Joan a joint
to the moon so obviously if this was
supposed to be an exhibition of a win at
all cost attitude well why do you try
and launch a joint mission if you're
trying to win at all cost and the answer
is he wasn't but they don't want to tell
you that hmm one of the most shocking
things about this series is that there
isn't one mention of Vietnam during the
whole discussion of President Kennedy's
tenure not one Wow and when they do
bring up the subject later during Bobby
Kennedy's presidential campaign Evan
Thomas the hack gets both clauses of his
sentence wrong he says that somehow
Bobby thought badly about the early
decision to send American troops into
Indochina all right first of all there
were no American troops in Indochina
from 1961 to 1963 there were no more
combat troops in Vietnam on the day
Kennedy was killed then on the day he
came into office meaning none all right
secondly in other words are only
advisers secondly there isn't any trace
of Bobby Kennedy being in the bomb in
those early discussions on what to do
about the American commitment into
Indochina I mean there's two very good
discussions of this issue by John Newman
in JFK and Vietnam and James blight in
virtual JFK I couldn't find any trace of
Bobby Kennedy being in the room when JFK
overruled his advisers saying we're not
sending combat troops in we're only
going to go ahead and increase a number
of advisers that we send there so I
don't know what the heck Evan Thomas is
talking about here really all right I
mean let's put it this way when your
program comes up and pales in comparison
with Chris Matthews in his recent
biography of Bobby Kennedy he quotes our
of Kay's saying in 1967
that his brother would have never sent
combat troops in the Indochina because
then it would become America's war and
as John bore wrote in his much better
book the revolution of Robert Kennedy
Bobby Kennedy was advising Johnson as
early as 1964 not to militarize
Indochina all right see this reveals
right there in an air of course that
there was a split between Johnson and
JFK on Vietnam and that RFK knew about
it well they don't wanted to delve into
that whole issue all right that's where
they're coming from let me just go
through a few more of the instead of
going into in-depth on these issues let
me just highlight some of the other
failures of this terrible program all
right what has become a right wing
paradigm in the field is echoed by Evan
Thomas and Van Jones who both say that
the Kennedys are not really interested
in civil rights when they entered the
White House this is completely wrong and
it's contradicted by the record as
journalist Harry golden wrote back in
1964 John Kennedy was an advocate of a
strong civil rights bill back in 1957 he
thought the bill proposed by Lyndon
Johnson who was the majority leader at
the time was a little bit too weak but
he voted for it anyway all right Kennedy
said the same to an audience when he
spoke about the issue and of all places
Jackson Mississippi which was in 1957 as
golden writes in his book those two
incidents started the decline in JFK's
popularity in the south but he was not
going to hesitate in 1960 he told his
civil rights advisory staff that he was
prepared to lose every state in the
south at the Democratic convention in
order to preserve a strong civil rights
plank in the platform as Irving
Bernstein a very good historian from
UCLA
between the 1960 election and his 1961
inauguration President Kennedy asked his
lead civil rights adviser Harris Wolford
throughout a detailed memo on that
entire issue that plan which was made up
of legal actions and executive orders
was what attorney general Bobby Kennedy
followed once he was sworn in in other
words what the show was selling at the
beginning what Jones and Thomas are
saying is no surprise just wrong all
right and in fact in November of 1963
Bobby Kennedy was seriously pondering
writing a letter of resignation to his
brother because it had become obvious to
him that his support for civil rights
had been so prominent til you lost the
entire south for the brother's 64
campaign thus endangering his reelection
it's you know it's simply a historical
fact you know and I don't know why all
these people try and deny it in three
years less than three years the Kennedy
administration did more to advance the
cause of civil rights than the previous
18 presidents did in the hundred years
before them and this culminated in JFK's
memorable national address on the issue
in June of 1963 the Kennedys shows that
time to go on national television
because the confrontations after
Birmingham and at the University of
Alabama it was now possible to pass an
omnibus civil rights bill over a
filibuster in the Senate that speech was
originally penned as the show tried to
say that was written by Bobby Kennedy
was actually written by his employee
Richard Yates who would later go on to
become a very famous novelist he wrote
that book revolutionary Road that was
then turned into a film the treatment of
the Missile Crisis
is so elementary that I don't even think
it would pass muster in a high school
class alright it tries to say that Bobby
Kennedy was a first-person suspect that
somehow there had been missiles and this
touch is not true John McCone the
director the CIA was the first person
who says prospectus JFK had a hard time
believing it cuz he had deliberately
warned Khrushchev against putting
offensive missiles into Cuba alright
this is about one month before the u2
flights captured the photos of the
installations
alright so finally when the YouTube
flights come in and he confronts the JFK
confronts the Soviet foreign minister
and the Soviet foreign minister lies
about it okay
then the crisis is on RFK now becomes
important because his back channel to
debris ninh but it was really Khrushchev
when he sent in a sec of his first
telegram his telex formulating a deal
about the missiles in Cuba for the
missiles in Turkey that was really the
beginning of an answer to the problem
and it's interesting of course that
during the one contribution of the show
is that Jackie Kennedy never left the
White House which of course means that
the whole Mimi alfred crap okay was a
bunch of baloney
which i suspected for a long time
alright and I can't believe so many
people even some people on our side fell
for it which leads of the Marilyn Monroe
angle the film shows his famous clip of
Monroe singing happy birthday to JFK at
his 1962 birthday party
whenever I see this clip
it always leaves out the information
that you know that wasn't like a private
party or anything like that
that was at Madison Square Garden paid
audience of 15,000 people it was part of
a Democratic Party fundraiser something
a JFK had done before the reason there
were 15,000 people there was because it
included not just her but Jack Benny
Danny Kaye Ella Fitzgerald Peggy Lee
Maria Callas and Jimmy Durante and then
men even more in other words you had
some of the most famous comedians and
singers and the entire world there hmm
that's why it was so crowded all right
now this is one of the things I did a
lot of work on in that previous essay
and I talked to some people who were
authorities in the field all right and I
came to the conclusion that this whole
thing about Monroe and JFK was pretty
much a rumor there really wasn't
anything there and that people like
jeanne carmen and bob slats her were
really kind of clowns who furnish hack
writers like David Heyman with tall
tales to burnish their tawdry books with
all right but these people never give up
and after I wrote that article
a man named John miner how the press
conference in Los Angeles and said that
he had unearthed long bury two audio
tapes of Munro talking about her
relationship with JFK I did some work on
miner he had been in the LA district
attorney's office during the murder of
Bobby Kennedy during that case he had
been suspended for unethical practices
for about four or five years now having
watched the LAPD and there let's put it
this way not very zealous pursuit of
justice in the Bobby Kennedy case all
right I can tell you
that that whole thing is institutionally
wide because at the civil suit has got
inured against the LAPD for his pictures
that he took in the pantry that night
the LAPD ran that trial literally and I
put in details here of why I believe
that is so bill Turner and John
Christian in their book the
assassination of Robert Kennedy revealed
that the estate of the late William
Joseph Bryan was executed by none other
than John miner now to anybody who was
studied the RFK murder this is crucial
to understanding the depth of official
malfeasance in that case for his people
like Lisa peas and Tim Tate have stated
brian is the prime suspect as the CIA
Pentagon associated psychiatrist who
programs Sirhan for his diversionary
role in the RFK assassination after
Brian died in the hotel room in Las
Vegas minors sealed off Brian's office
and took possession of his personal and
professional effects after studying
Brian's career I can state that there
was a lot to hide minor was not taking
any chances any of it leaking out can
one imagine anything much worse than a
prosecutor in charge of the estate of a
prime suspect in a murder case one who
got off scot-free finally as William
Blum writes in his book the CIA
forgotten history the LAPD cooperated
with CIA agent Robert Mayhew in the
production of a pornographic film
depicting in an actor as the Indonesian
leader sukarno with a shapely blonde
woman who someone said resembled Monroe
need I add that some knowledgeable
people suspect may he was involved in
the RFK assassination
anybody can connect the dots here if you
can fake a film it's easy to create or
alter audio tapes and let me add this
Secret Service agents Clint Hill and
Gerald Blaine are both on the record is
saying that there was no such Marilyn
Monroe lies on which JFK and as anybody
familiar with the Secret Service will
understand
they had no great love for their boss
all right now the film then goes into
well let's put it this way it completely
ignores his steel crisis JFK is standing
up to the steel companies who
double-crossed him and raising the price
of steel which the great John Blair the
economists called quote the most
dramatic confrontation in history
between a president and a corporate
management alright there's not one word
in the whole series about that there's
almost nothing about the JFK
assassination watching this show you
would think that the most tragic thing
that happened was at since Jackie and
JFK had lost a child
their marriage was let's say getting
warmer all right that was about it
nothing about all the changes that took
place as a result of Kennedy's
assassination in Congo Indonesia Vietnam
I can go on and on none of that and
there's no record in this film of the
reaction of Fidel Castro and Nikita
Khrushchev when they got the news of
Kennedy's assassination and we all know
about that is because it's in JFK and
the unspeakable alright Castro was
thunderstruck because JFK's emissary
John Danielle was there and they JFK was
mapping out a outline for approach want
between the United States and Cuba
Castro was stunned he said this is bad
news over and over then he got a second
call telling them JFK was now dead
and capture said everything has now
changed everything is going to change
which was true when Khrushchev heard of
the shooting he went into a state of
shock
the next day when he signed his
condolences at the American ambassador's
residence he appeared to be crying as
his biographer William Todman wrote
Khrushchev needed Kennedy and that was
one of the Kennedys assassinations one
of the things that led to Khrushchev
being retired from office the following
year neither Khrushchev nor Castro ever
believe the official story as oswald as
a lone assassin in fact Castro made his
speech to the next day in which he went
ahead and offered his opinion as though
it really happened and wine none of this
is in there none of this the avoidance
syndrome continues to be apparent when
we address Bobby Kennedy's reaction to
the news of JFK's assassination the
program does deal with Hoover's calls to
RF Kay's home but only skims the surface
of all the phone calls that Bobby
Kennedy made that afternoon like Castro
RFK Emily thought his brother been
killed as a result of a domestic plot
okay and his main suspects were the CIA
the Cuban exiles and the mob which of
course shows how cute he was in that
regard all right in other words Bobby
Kennedy was on the same page with Castro
and Khrushchev and then of course he and
Jackie Kennedy sent William Walton a
cultural ambassador to Russia to convey
a message to Bobby's friend Georgi
bolshakov all right saying that they
believed that Kennedy had been killed by
a large domestic conspiracy Lyndon
Johnson would not be able to fulfill
President Kennedy's grand design
four-day taunt since he was too close to
big business interests Bobby would then
resign run for office and then
for the presidency and then they would
fulfill together
JFK's goals of a day taunt and a melting
of the Cold War and again this is in
Timnath alleys book one hell of a gamble
so if they wanted to put it in there
they had the perfect guy to talk about
it all right
now what happens after with Bobby
Kennedy going to the Senate and then
deciding to run for the presidency in 68
they don't have anybody on this like Joe
Palermo wrote a very good book on this
in his own right John bore wrote a
pretty good book the revolution of
Robert Kennedy he's only on this show
for like three minutes okay they clearly
didn't want to hear from these guys what
happened to Bobby Kennedy after his
brother was assassinated the conflict
between for example Bobby Kennedy and
LBJ over Vietnam because Bobby Kennedy
knew what his brother was doing that
last year all right in other words he
was withdrawing and so Bobby Kennedy
opposed Johnson's escalation of the war
and then during 1964 with the passage of
the Civil Rights Act when Johnson
invited the racist J Edgar Hoover to the
ceremony and offered him a pen and then
gave the can of pens to Bobby Kennedy to
pass out to everybody else
well Bobby Kennedy got the message and
he decided to resign from office okay
and go to the Senate there's nothing in
the series about Bobby Kennedy standing
up to the NRA
there's nothing about senator Kennedy
standing out to cigarette companies
there's nothing about his attempt to
repeal right-to-work laws in the south
which weakened unions you know RFK s
trip to Latin America
is very much discounted you know John
bore in his book revolution of Robert
Kennedy spends 24 pages on the things
that Bobby Kennedy did down there all
right which was like bawling out
landlord's for swindling their employees
trying to talk crowd in Brazil to march
on the presidential palace going down
into a mine to see what that job was
like and then coming up and say hey by
to do that all day I'd be a communist -
and if you can believe it it doesn't do
at noth-nothing period with which a lot
of people believe is the whole highlight
of Bobby Kennedy's tenure in the Senate
which which is trip to South Africa to
Cape Town in 1966 which i think was the
first time any american politician had
addressed that the apartheid issue in a
public forum all right incredible the
chronicle of Bobby Kennedy's last
campaign in 1968 is done without
distinction of any kind at all you know
and and that's pretty bad because that
campaign for the Democratic nomination
was really the last crusade of the
generation of the 60s it was their last
hope after the murders of JFK Malcolm X
and King now King was still alive at the
beginning and he would not endorse LBJ
or Eugene McCarthy okay after they had
cooperated through Marian Wright on the
Poor People's Campaign King was elated
when Canada declared his can deceive
saying he wouldn't make an outstanding
president and of course because Kennedy
was associated at that time we Cesar
Chavez and Dolores Huerta which of this
series very much minimizes he became the
candidate
for the poor and the downtrodden and
minority groups well within three weeks
after his announcement King was dead in
Memphis the program does show RFK going
into downtown Indianapolis to calm a
campaign crowd by delivering a news of
King's death but there's very little
about the California primary where for
the first time in the history of the
city of Los Angeles the voter turnout on
the poor East Side was higher than the
turnout on the wealthy West Side because
of course
RFK was backed by Chavez by Huerta and
by the memory of what he did for civil
rights all right and his speech in Cape
Town he had given those people a reason
to vote can these campaign workers were
shocked they woke up early and before
the doors had even opened on the voting
booths in East LA people were lined up
for blocks okay and that's of course
what propelled him she was victory all
right
and there's almost nothing of course we
all know what happened after he made his
speech he was assassinated in the pantry
right there's almost nothing about that
assassination okay and nothing about the
impact of that assassination because the
impact of that assassination of course
was that it led to the victory of
Richard Nixon who was really kind of the
anti RFK and it was Nixon and Kissinger
who then continued the war in Indochina
for four more years and they expanded it
in the Cambodia and Laos the Cambodia
expansion cause he overthrows SIA nuke
the leader of that country which led to
the coming to power the Khmer Rouge and
a genocide that took the lives of two
million more people all right
combined with the current surveys of how
many perish in Vietnam from 1955 to 1973
that makes for a total of 6 million dead
after the murder of JFK in Indochina all
right somehow CNN thought that Kennedy's
falling out with Frank Sinatra over his
underworld connections was more
important than elucidating that's fact
of history all right and I as I adhered
that editorial choice tells us a lot
about what our culture has devolved into
two segments on Eunice Shriver and Ted
Kennedy are they're almost too brief to
even they're at discussion uniess
Kennedy married Sargent Shriver and they
both became integral parts of the
Kennedy administration in the Kennedy
legacy
Joe Kennedy hired Sidon harbor to manage
one of the crown jewels of his real
estate empire the Chicago Merchandise
Mart after JFK was elected Shriver was
under the prime designers of the piece
course then the Job Corps and in the
head start program he ran the Office of
Economic Opportunity under Johnson he
was in Ambassador France from 68 to 70
at his funeral in 2011 which I've linked
to here Bill Clinton said words of the
effect that Sargent Shriver set the bar
too high for all those in public service
you knees Kennedy his wife worked in the
field of juvenile delinquency for the
Justice Department
she then moved to Chicago to continue
that work and also contributed her time
to a women's shelter she was a major
advocate for special needs children and
was very important making a Special
Olympics of national program I mean if
there was ever a wealthy couple they did
more for people in dire straits and the
Schreiber's I'd like to know who it was
they don't get anything but lip service
on this program a small segment
comparatively speaking as devoted to ket
Kennedy much of that of course is
devoted to Chappaquiddick you know and I
think they get it all wrong the best
book I ever wrote on I remember read on
Chappaquiddick
was a book by James lang and Catherine
DeWitt called Chappaquiddick the real
story that book showed that contrary to
what the late Leo d'amour was selling
Ted Kennedy didn't get any special
treatment in that case all right it's
pretty obvious a Ted Kennedy suffered a
severe concussion and the accident and
this is why his doctors considered doing
the spinal tap to see if there was brain
damage he also had to wear a neck brace
for weeks afterwards it was that
concussion that caused his shock and
retrograde amnesia Kennedy got a
suspended sentence for leaving the scene
of an accident and he's an insurance
company paid an indemnity to the family
of Mary Jo Kopechne II for her
accidental death mr. lang who was a very
experienced personal injury lawyer wrote
that's pretty much what usually happened
back in those days for a first time case
where the record as clean as Ted
Kennedy's was so now what randy
taraborrelli this entertainment reporter
says that Joan Kennedy Ted's first wife
attended Mary's funeral with Ted and
this attendance was semi directly
related to a miscarriage in her
pregnancy what the show leaves out is
that John Kennedy had previously
suffered two prior miscarriages that she
had a mushrooming alcohol problem for
which we later received numerous traffic
citations and she had to go into rehab
for it was a problem that she could
never really overcome all right it deals
with the loss by Ted Kennedy to Jimmy
Carter in the Democratic primaries in
1980 but it deals very little at all
with his great moments in the Senate his
defeat of Robert Bork's nomination for
the Supreme Court his lonely spirited
defense of Anita Hill his ultimate
successful attempt to cut off funding
for the Vietnam War his attacks on this
a Nixon and Kissinger
for the genocide in East Pakistan
commonly called Bangladesh his push for
a settlement in ulster and is calling
the Iraq invasion George HW Bush's
Vietnam alright so in other words none
of the none of those specifics are
really important okay to this show this
program is really the end result of a
trend I first noticed in my 1997 essay
in the assassinations the posthumous
assassination of John F Kennedy it's a
combination of the tabloid ization of
our mainstream media with the desperate
attempt by cable TV to garner a wider
audience that peering has become fatal
to honest reporting and scholarly
research in some this series is pretty
much a worthless time filler it ignored
really good scholars on the Kennedy
presidency like Robert rakove and opted
for People magazine types like
taraborrelli and Sally Bedell Smith and
mainstream hacks like Larry Tigh and
Evan Thomas you know it was nice to see
some female commentators on the program
but when there is mediocre as the males
then what does it mean to have them on
what this program really proves is the
opposite of what it tries to show when
you have to censor and curtail as much
material as this series did it reveals
that the true facts of what the Kennedy
brothers tried to achieve
poses as much a national security
problem for the country as a real facts
about their assassination but here's the
capper which I did not realize until
later and I added this as an addendum to
the article the main producer of the
show was something called raw TV based
in England
that production house was purchased by
Discovery Channel in 2004 Discovery
Channel of course was behind the late
Gary Max attempts to reassert to
discredited Warren Report with so shows
like inside the target car and JFK the
Ruby connection I do not think it's a
coincidence that the people who try and
cover up the fact to the JFK murder are
also those who disguise who he really
was and what his presidency was all
about and at the end I went ahead and I
linked to my reviews of those two
Discovery Channel debacles okay and I
also linked to my slideshow which was
done in the hundredth anniversary of Jo
Kay's birthday and it's a detailed
examination of who JFK really was and
what he really stood for and I also
linked to my essay I consortium news
about the real career of Bobby Kennedy
so you get an antidote to this
mainstream garbage you know you know so
so let me ask you there's a you know
people are gonna watch this some of them
know a lot about the Kennedys maybe some
of them probably 90% of them know very
little at all you know they'll watch it
within a week maybe they'll probably
forget most of the details but they're
gonna be left with this impression of
the Kennedys what you know with like one
minute what is the impression that you
think this leaves of the Kennedys and
then and why do you think you know we
know CNN is it faces pressures from
politicians and just kind of general
people you know saying oh why presenting
like this or even internally you know
why presenting like this no let's
present it like this you know we have
six hours to do it we'll do it this way
we'll do it that way we'll pick this
that why leave why leave that impression
you know as opposed to something more
positive especially in a time here where
you know everybody's worried about the
Trump and what's happening to democracy
and all this kind of thing I I think
that the motive behind this show like
this and the fact that it was produced
by the Discovery Channel tells you a lot
about the why is that it wants to
downplay discount or in some cases
completely ignore the great things that
the Kennedys did you know like President
Kennedy RFK and even Ted Kennedy to a
lesser extent in order to reduce their
legacy all right it's and like I said at
the end of my review this goes
hand-in-hand with what the mainstream
media has done with the actual
circumstances surrounding the
assassinations of JFK and RFK because on
the one hand what you do is scream out
time after time there was no conspiracy
and on the other hand if you say well
they really didn't do all that much good
stuff anyway you as essentially what
that does it stops any questioning about
the why and if you remember one of the
best scenes in Oliver Stone's movie JFK
is one mr. axe is on the park bench with
Jim Garrison and he says that's the real
question isn't it why okay so one leads
to the other all right and and and by
the way the the MSM has been shameless
in this regard utterly shameless and I
have to say that the more I delve into
this because like I think I told you
before the
last five years of my research career
I'd say I devoted about 80% of my time
to uncovering the secrets facts about
President Kennedy's foreign policy all
right and I didn't realize what a giant
cover-up there had been about that issue
you know and I believe today I believe
that the cover of about what JFK was
doing in the field of foreign policy the
really radical stuff he was doing has
been even more covered up than the real
facts about his assassination I realize
that's a big statement but I think I'm
equipped to judge both because I've
written books about both subjects all
right and so I really believe that they
go hand in hand David and I think that's
the reason it's not a coincidence coveri
channel that spent two shows covering up
the circumstances of President Kennedy's
murder is now in the business of
covering up the true circumstances of
his political career I think they're
both disgraceful you know but
unfortunately and I've said this before
also and in my estimation the media in
the United States
is probably one of the very worst there
is in all of the westernized countries
and it's getting better rather not it's
not getting better
it's actually getting worse all right
you can the reason for that is that PBS
has now gone into the tank on this issue
but doesn't it behoove the Democrats to
you know I know they don't have control
over CNN or anything like that but
doesn't it behoove them to enhance the
legacy we see how Ronald Reagan is
treated as in this ridiculous way as
this man who won the Cold War and all
his misdeeds and crimes that he carried
out in Central America are completely
ignored and he almost see the opposite
with Kennedy where all of his failings
are
are boosted and all of his successes are
downplayed but you don't really hear any
complaints from Democrats or people on
the left which is a little more
complicated I understand but you know
doesn't it behoove them or do you think
that their policies now are just so far
away from where Kennedy's was that they
would rather forget about what he was
trying to do believe me believe me if
there's anybody who would like to see
that it's me because I think this is one
of the reasons the Democratic Party has
become neutered is because they don't
stand up for the people they should be
standing up for in fact as you can see
from this program you know people like
Van Jones have ended up you know in the
pockets are the people trying to tear
down that legacy you know so nobody
would like to see that more than I would
and the only time I think it's ever
happened was when there was supposed to
be that trashy series a dead docudrama
about the Kennedys in which there was a
Hollywood producer that we bent began a
campaign against it you know and on the
Internet and so it had to go to that
trashy Network Stars which is getting
more and more powerful as that as time
goes on at that time it didn't reach out
very many people but but now it does and
this of course is all related David to
the terrible policies that were pursued
by Bill Clinton that led the media
conglomeration you know his that whole
revision of the Telecommunications Act
that Bill Clinton did in ninth I think
was 1996 that was oh my god you know it
this began under Reagan but it was then
continued by the Clintons you know and
and it's given us first of all it struck
down the Fairness Doctrine and he
time so this means of course that you
can say just about anything you want to
say on TV and you don't have to grant
the other side equal time as we saw in
1967 or 68 when NBC attacked Jim
Garrison on network television he
applied for equal time and he and he'd
although he didn't get equal time he
didn't get an hour he did get 30 minutes
all right all right but an incredible
thing to watch he gets to study his
whole case on national TV that must have
been mind-boggling to see you know
millions of people must have watched
that see but Reagan struck that down all
right and disallowed for what we have
today which is advocacy television yeah
you could attack anybody and you don't
get equal time you know and and so then
what Clinton did is he struck down the
FCC rules about local monopolies and
national monopolies and that which I
think was in 1996 combined with what
happened with the proliferation of cable
TV that was coming in that allowed the
conglomeration of Akil because NBC owns
MSNBC Fox network owns Fox Cable okay
you know and CNN was run by Turner
Network so that allowed even these new
technologies to now be dominated by
these mega corporations and so you don't
have and then of course when money the
Republicans began to have a jeremiad
against PBS they began to strike more
and more money away from the PBS budget
until they had to go to private
companies and foundations and you go to
foundation money you know like most of
the money's on the on the right okay so
you get people like the cook brothers
who sponsored the
anteye JFK show that was on PBS for the
2012-2013 anniversary and this is what
really worries me about the state of the
media that we have all right and it's
very very unfortunate
you know Trump talks about fake news all
right well unfortunately he's not
talking about the right fake news you
know he just does that in order to
attack people who are attacking him he
really doesn't have very much interest
in the whole historical saga of what has
happened the media in this country it's
it's it's it's an honor disgrace if it
wasn't for the Internet
I really don't think we'd have much of
anything and as we know Donald Trump is
trying to hinder that with what will
eventually become what what they call
the tiered system in other words if you
want total access the internet
everything you're gonna have to pay more
than what you would if you got less and
less it's gonna be like your options
with cable TV right you know you want to
only get basic cable then you pay thirty
five bucks a month if you want to get
the whole thing it's a hundred and forty
five dollars a month that's where I
think it will go unless the Democrats do
something about this now let me add one
other point about this we saw a few days
ago a terrific historical upset
this little girl Alexandria I think her
name is Osso Castillo Cortez right one
and actually she won very soundly she
won by about 12 points she beats an
entrenched Democratic congressman who
was probably headed to become minority
leader of the House of Representatives
she was outspent something like six to
one and Crowley didn't underestimate
there's so much he didn't even bother
debater face-to-face but she won on a
very progressive platform okay and I
this might be now I'm not gonna
overstate this but this might be I
believe part of the reaction is
developing against Donald Trump all
right I hope it is how this woman worked
for Ted Kennedy she actually worked in
his immigration office and she was the
first person I know who in any kind of
campaign began to actually say we should
get rid of ice okay and if you can
believe it that's caught on down now
there's about seven or eight Democrats
who are talking about eliminating ice
you know so maybe that's a good
harbinger we'll see right okay let's but
you know something
why don't we postpone the Tom Hanks one
and until a separate show because that
actually deserves its own show Jim this
is a great talk thank you very much and
yeah thank you so much David and we'll
we'll take up Tom Hanks in 1968 on a
second show great sounds good
[Music]
this is our hidden history
you